does this video really show one of the
current Israeli counterattacks on Gaza
this is what several social media users
are claiming but this is false it's old
footage a quick reverse image search
shows the video is not related to the
current situation it's a video of a
tower Block in Gaza being destroyed by a
missile and it is from May
20121 it was aired by several
International media outlets at the time
Hamas is a terrorist organization and is
identified as such by the EU the US
Germany and a number of other countries
since the islamist terrorist
organization Hamas attacked Israel on
October 7 social media has been flooded
with claims photos and videos about the
ongoing situation and many of them are
false the amount of disinformation
misinformation uh
propaganda confusion is as high as I've
ever seen in any conflict so there's
definitely a much larger volume
happening this time around there are
certain narratives which show the extent
of fake news currently circulating
online since militant terrorist attacks
began several videos have appeared
allegedly showing the Abduction of
Israeli children by Hamas or the
kidnapping of Palestinian miners by
Israeli forces while some videos about
children being harmed are TR true many
are false here's one example many social
media users have shared this video which
claims Israelis are making fake videos
which say Hamas has killed children the
video has been viewed hundred of
thousands of times this claim is false
in the comments section some users claim
the video shows footage from the
production of a film directed by a ash
Muhammad a is a cinematographer who
worked on the film on his Instagram and
Tik Tok accounts we found videos daating
back to April
2022 showing the same footage it turns
out the video circulating online shows
behind the scenes footage from the
making of empty place the short film is
based on the life of Ahmed manasa a
13-year-old Palestinian boy whose arrest
in 2015 and subsequent murder conviction
led to Global outrage a Google search
led us to the short film which was
published in
2022 another viral video is this one
social media users claim it shows a
Hamas militant fighter with a kidnapped
Jewish baby girl in
Gaza this is false during our online
research we were unable to find the
account which allegedly posted the video
first but we found this Instagram
account here is a statement that says
the video was uploaded a month ago and
shows him and an Arabic girl in the
streets he also States his Tik Tok
account was hacked and deleted in fact
we found an archived version of the
video which was uploaded on September
8th therefore it is not related to the
current Israel Hamas War experts see a
specific reason for the spread of such a
large amount of fake news these fake
media these narrative campaigns being
shared uh widely so just so each
um member of of of each part of this
conflict can Garner more public support
uh for them what we're also seeing
online are many fake videos about
alleged attacks of Hamas against Israel
like this one this video allegedly shows
dozens of Hamas Fighters paragliding
into Israel this is false we are seeing
a location in Egypt through a reverse
image search we were able to geolocate
the area the white building in the
background is a military academy in
Cairo if you look closely you can also
see an Egyptian flag on the building and
in front of it is the military code of
arms the alleged Palestinian paragliders
are parat Troopers and they beer the
Egyptian flag we could not find the
original clip but the video most likely
shows an Egyptian Military exercise
while the US News Agency Associated
Press reported that there have been
humus Fighters entering has paragliders
this video doesn't document that
situation news about Israel Gaza and the
terror organization Hamas continue to
circulate globally as is the
misinformation about reactions from some
political leaders a lot of videos show
Russian President Vladimir Putin
allegedly speaking about the situation
in Israel like this one I warning
America to stay away from the Palestine
Israel war the video has thousands of
views but it's
false through a reverse image search we
found the videos of Putin are old they
were originally published 10 months ago
by several media Outlets we compared the
videos shared on social media now with
the video which was published back in
December
2022 they are exactly the same we asked
a Russian speaker who confirmed the
English translations of the videos on
social media are
false Putin does not speak about the
conflict in the Middle East Putin speaks
about the Russian Ukraine war and
replies to a question about the
country's potential use of nuclear
weapons these are only a few examples of
the disinformation circulating about the
Hamas attacks on Israel there are many
more fueled by the algorithm and the
policies of social media platforms if
you see more disinformation and
propaganda circulating online please
send it to factchecking at dw.com